README.md, before:

# MultiBUGS

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/9ewgftojuttkn9jg/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/MultiBUGS/multibugs/branch/master)

[MultiBUGS](https://www.multibugs.org) implements a simple, automatic algorithm for parallelising Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithms for posterior inference of Bayesian hierarchical models. It builds on the existing algorithms and tools in [OpenBUGS](http://www.openbugs.net/), and so is applicable to the broad range of statistical models that can be fitted using BUGS-language software, but automatically parallelises the MCMC algorithm to dramatically speed up computation. This makes modern multi-core computing accessible to applied statisticians, without requiring any experience of parallel programming.

See the [MultiBUGS website](https://www.multibugs.org) for further details.

## Citation

Details of the algorithms used by MultiBUGS can be found in:

Goudie, R. J. B., Turner, R. M., De Angelis, D., Thomas, A. (2017) MultiBUGS: Massively parallel MCMC for Bayesian hierarchical models. [arXiv:1704.03216](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.03216)

## Installation

MultiBUGS currently works only on Windows. (We hope to port it to Linux in the near future.)

### Installation of current version

See the main [MultiBUGS website](https://www.multibugs.org) for installation instructions of the current released version.

### Installation from source

The MultiBUGS source can be compiled from source and installed using the following steps:

1. Download and install [Microsoft MPI (MS-MPI)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb524831(v=vs.85).aspx). Version 8.1 or newer is required, since MultiBUGS uses `MPI_Comm_spawn`. This framework allows running parallel applications on the Windows platform.

2. Download and install [BlackBox 1.7.1](http://blackboxframework.org/index.php?cID=goto-download-page,en-us) from the BlackBox Framework Center. This is the framework that MultiBUGS is written using.

3. Download the [zip archive](https://github.com/MultiBUGS/MultiBUGS/archive/master.zip) of MultiBUGS. Unzip this to, for example, `C:\`

4. Make a new shortcut to the BlackBox.exe file in the newly-installed BlackBox directory (right-click on BlackBox.exe, choose "Create shortcut"). Add the path to the MultiBUGS directory as the `/USE` argument to the `Target` of the shortcut. For example, if BlackBox  is in `C:\Program Files (x86)\BlackBox Component Builder 1.7\` and MultiBUGS is in `C:\MultiBUGS-master`, then change the `Target` to:

```
mpiexec -n 1 "C:\Program Files (x86)\BlackBox Component Builder 1.7\BlackBox.exe" /USE "C:\MultiBUGS-master"
```

and `Start in` to

```
"C:\MultiBUGS-master"
```

You may want to move the shortcut itself to the Desktop to make it easy to access.

5. Double click the shortcut to open MultiBUGS/BlackBox.

6. Within MultiBUGS/BlackBox open `Make.odc`, which is found in the `Developer` directory in the MultiBUGS directory. Click on the `!` beside `DevCompiler.CompileThis`. This will compile MultiBUGS. The compiler will ask you to confirm the creation of many directories: click OK to confirm all of these in turn. Compiling will take a couple of minutes. Once compiling is finished the status bar should say "ok".

7. Close BlackBox/MultiBUGS and then reopen it to complete installation. Note that the first time you compile a model, BlackBox/MultiBUGS will confirm creation of a couple of extra directories. The Windows Firewall may also require you to give BlackBox/MultiBUGS permission: this is needed to allow communication between cores.

Commit message:

Add link to Appveyor binaries

README.md, after:

# MultiBUGS

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/9ewgftojuttkn9jg/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/MultiBUGS/multibugs/branch/master)

[MultiBUGS](https://www.multibugs.org) implements a simple, automatic algorithm for parallelising Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithms for posterior inference of Bayesian hierarchical models. It builds on the existing algorithms and tools in [OpenBUGS](http://www.openbugs.net/), and so is applicable to the broad range of statistical models that can be fitted using BUGS-language software, but automatically parallelises the MCMC algorithm to dramatically speed up computation. This makes modern multi-core computing accessible to applied statisticians, without requiring any experience of parallel programming.

See the [MultiBUGS website](https://www.multibugs.org) for further details.

## Citation

Details of the algorithms used by MultiBUGS can be found in:

Goudie, R. J. B., Turner, R. M., De Angelis, D., Thomas, A. (2017) MultiBUGS: Massively parallel MCMC for Bayesian hierarchical models. [arXiv:1704.03216](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.03216)

## Installation

MultiBUGS currently works only on Windows. (We hope to port it to Linux in the near future.)

### Installation of current version

See the main [MultiBUGS website](https://www.multibugs.org) for installation instructions of the current released version.

### Unstable development version

#### Pre-build unstable binaries
MultiBUGS is automatically built after each commit by Appveyor. The resulting (potentially unstable and broken) development version can be installed by, following the following steps:

1. Download and install [Microsoft MPI (MS-MPI)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb524831(v=vs.85).aspx). Version 8.1 or newer is required, since MultiBUGS uses `MPI_Comm_spawn`. This framework allows running parallel applications on the Windows platform.

2. Download the [latest `master` branch build of MultiBUGS](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/MultiBUGS/MultiBUGS/artifacts/MultiBUGS.zip?branch=master) from Appveyor CI. Unzip this to, for example, `C:\Program Files (x86)\MultiBUGS`.

#### Building from source
The MultiBUGS source can be compiled from source and installed using the following steps:

1. Download and install [Microsoft MPI (MS-MPI)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb524831(v=vs.85).aspx). Version 8.1 or newer is required, since MultiBUGS uses `MPI_Comm_spawn`. This framework allows running parallel applications on the Windows platform.

2. Download and install [BlackBox 1.7.1](http://blackboxframework.org/index.php?cID=goto-download-page,en-us) from the BlackBox Framework Center. This is the framework that MultiBUGS is written using.

3. Download the [zip archive](https://github.com/MultiBUGS/MultiBUGS/archive/master.zip) of MultiBUGS. Unzip this to, for example, `C:\`

4. Make a new shortcut to the BlackBox.exe file in the newly-installed BlackBox directory (right-click on BlackBox.exe, choose "Create shortcut"). Add the path to the MultiBUGS directory as the `/USE` argument to the `Target` of the shortcut. For example, if BlackBox  is in `C:\Program Files (x86)\BlackBox Component Builder 1.7\` and MultiBUGS is in `C:\MultiBUGS-master`, then change the `Target` to:

```
mpiexec -n 1 "C:\Program Files (x86)\BlackBox Component Builder 1.7\BlackBox.exe" /USE "C:\MultiBUGS-master"
```

and `Start in` to

```
"C:\MultiBUGS-master"
```

You may want to move the shortcut itself to the Desktop to make it easy to access.

5. Double click the shortcut to open MultiBUGS/BlackBox.

6. Within MultiBUGS/BlackBox open `Make.odc`, which is found in the `Developer` directory in the MultiBUGS directory. Click on the `!` beside `DevCompiler.CompileThis`. This will compile MultiBUGS. The compiler will ask you to confirm the creation of many directories: click OK to confirm all of these in turn. Compiling will take a couple of minutes. Once compiling is finished the status bar should say "ok".

7. Close BlackBox/MultiBUGS and then reopen it to complete installation. Note that the first time you compile a model, BlackBox/MultiBUGS will confirm creation of a couple of extra directories. The Windows Firewall may also require you to give BlackBox/MultiBUGS permission: this is needed to allow communication between cores.
